So what to do in case some resources in AWS
are compromised.
Well, the most important one to remember
is how to deal with a compromised EC2 instance
because the exam will test you on that.
So let's take an example of two AZs, one VPC
two instances running in an autoscaling group
and connected to a load balancer.
And the instances are having the WebApp security group.
So let's say one of these instances is compromise.
So what do we do?
Number one is we capture all of the instance metadata
then we enable termination protection
because we want to keep it
and wanna make sure that it doesn't disappear.
We isolate the instance
so we replace the instant security group
with one with no outbound traffic authorized.
And so therefore, this instance
cannot communicate with the outside world
and at least it is contained.
Next, we can detach the instance from any auto-scaling group
so we can suspend the processes
of the auto-scaling group and then detach the instance.
And of course, we wanna de-register the instance
from any ELB because we don't want that instance
to be part of any network traffic.
Now, if the attack is happening on the EC2 instance
that means something was installed on the root volume maybe,
or any attached volume.
So we snapshot any EBS volumes attached
to the instance for deeper analysis.
So we have a volume, we make a snapshot,
and then we can create a forensics EC2 instance
that we control and we attach all the volumes
that we've snapshotted back to this instance
and then we'll be able to have a look
deeply into the snapshotted data, what is happening
and what is the root cause of the compromise.
Also, if you have an EC2 instance that is compromised
please make sure to tag the EC2 instance
with the investigation ticket number, for example,
so that you know that well, something is wrong
with that instance.
There are two types of investigations you can do.
You can do an offline investigation,
so this is when you shut down the instance
and you're going to look at the EBS volumes
that have been snapshotted and then restored
and attached to a forensic EC2 instance.
That's one way.
The second way is to do an online investigation
where on top of it you're going to snapshot the memory
or capture the network traffic.
The risk is of course, that the EC2 instance
is still active, but with an online investigation
you can maybe understand what the EC2 instance
is trying to leak to the outside world,
and you can maybe do a better investigation this way.
Now, to automate all these processes,
you can use Lambda,
and if you want to automate the memory capture
of your EC2 instance, you can use the SSM run command.
So these steps should feel natural to you
and remember them going into the exam.
Now let's review the other kinds of resources
that can be compromised.
So we have an S3 bucket in this case
we identify the compromised S3 bucket using GuardDuty.
We identify the source of the malicious activity
Using CloudTrail or Amazon Detective
and then we're going to identify whether or not
the source was actually authorized to make these API calls.
Once we figure out what is happening
we can reinforce the security of our S3 buckets.
So some recommended settings are going to be around
blocking the public access
making sure we have good bucket policies
and good IAM policies, creating VPC endpoints for Amazon S3
using S3 pre-signed URLs, using S3 access points
or they're deprecated.
But we could also use S3 ACLs.
Now for compromised ECS cluster.
So you identify which cluster is compromised using GuardDuty
and then you identify the source of the malicious activity.
So is it a container image, is it some tasks, and so on.
And then you escalate all the impacted tasks.
So you deny them all ingress and egress traffic
using a new security group
similarly to what we've done to our EC2 instances.
And then you evaluate the presence of malware
or malicious activity on these containers
and you figure out the root cause of it.
If you have a standalone cluster, container, sorry
that is compromised, it's a similar process.
So you identify what is happening
you isolate the container itself.
With a new security group
you can suspend all the processes within the container.
It's called pausing the container
or you can stop the container itself
and look at any snapshotted data.
So there is an EBS snapshot feature by GuardDuty
to retain any snapshots of compromised resources.
And then of course you do a forensics analysis
and you detect the presence of malicious activity
and you understand what is happening.
You can also detect compromised RDS database instances.
So similarly it's going to be into GuardDuty to figure out
which instance got affected
and what is the source of malicious activity
and in case it is not legitimate behavior.
Then number one we want to restrict network access
using security group and NALCs,
or we want to restrict the database access
for the suspected user that got compromised,
because usually if your RDS database is compromised
it means that user credentials leaked.
So for these users
well it's good to rotate the user's password
so that the attacker cannot use the user anymore.
You can also look at the database audit log
to figure out any leaked data and on top of it
you can enhance the security of your RDS database.
Some recommended settings, of course
are going to be around using Secrets Manager
to rotate the database passwords
and of course using IAM database authentication
to make sure the users can access our RDS database
just through IAM policies being authorized to
and not with password.
Alright, that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.